
Threat hunting tools driven by trained analysts can help increase the scalability and accuracy of threat hunting operations. Core technical skill sets and knowledge areas are also key to a successful threat hunting team. The two key areas defined by the participants include core security operations capabilities and digital forensics and incident response (DFIR) skills. Baseline knowledge of networks and endpoints make up the first tier of knowledge. These knowledge areas are essentially understanding typical network traffic and endpoint services across multiple locations inside an enterprise network. These skills are rated appropriately, as they are core capabilities and are, therefore, mandatory for threat hunting to be effective. In the same grouping, we also observe both threat intelligence and analytics. Security analytics provide short- and long-term historical views of data in motion and at rest across the network and hosts, enabling threat hunting teams to begin to spot anomalies. Moreover, threat intelligence provides the key difference for hunt teams to focus on areas targeted by adversaries, in addition to being on the lookout for key adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) in use across the enterprise. Without threat intelligence fine-tuning a team’s area of focus, most teams find themselves overwhelmed by the massive amount of data they must analyze. DFIR skills make up the second tier of required skills, given that incident response and forensic skills are the baseline capabilities needed to perform hunting on single hosts and at scale across an organization’s enterprise network. DFIR skills are usually ranked to follow core capabilities because trained analysts use them to help recognize and extract new threat intelligence used to identify compromised hosts using Tier 1 skills. The two tiers are grouped perfectly. It is recommended that organizations initially focus on building out the core capabilities when trying to build a threat hunting team. Arm your team with the ability to examine baseline network and endpoints. Then, be able to use security analytics and threat intelligence to identify compromised hosts more efficiently and at a scale that pairs up with the size of your network. Hunting Automation: Fully Automated or Semi-Automated? Automation is such a misunderstood word, especially in the context of threat hunting. Hunting needs capabilities to help enhance speed, accuracy, and effectiveness. The best hunting teams heavily leverage automation to aid in increasing the scale and efficiency of hunts across the enterprise. However, by its definition, hunting is best suited for finding the threats that surpass what automation alone can uncover. Threats are, after all, moving targets. Still, it is important to recognize the intertwined nature of automation and the human process of threat hunting. Tools and capabilities that aid threat hunting is SOC driven. Traditional information security architecture such as SIEM analytics, log file analysis, intrusion detection and antivirus are largely automated capabilities based on signature-based rules fed and maintained by analysts. When you begin to introduce hunting concepts using these capabilities, they often record, identify, and possibly ignore small anomalies that often are the barely visible tracks of advanced adversaries. Ignoring these trivial anomalies is easy because there are too many to properly vet in even a modest-sized network. After discovery, most security teams realize that their sensors did, in fact, record the adversaries’ activities at the time those alerts occurred. However, the teams were too overwhelmed to pay any attention to them. These capabilities can be enhanced greatly by utilizing threat intelligence effectively. With proper intelligence, additional threat indicators of compromise and the right analysts using properly tuned tools, some seemingly benign alerts would be identified as major events. Threat hunting, threat intelligence, and security operations can move together in harmony. The lack of true automation highlights the idea that it is a challenge to fully automate threat hunting. Such a realization brings to the forefront that over-reliance on standard SOC reporting tools such as SIEM/IDS tends to skew reports of hunting effectiveness because they aren’t hunting—they are performing intrusion detection. Having said that, SIEM/IDS data can be used to help identify anomalies in hunts. While I applaud automation in increasing the speed, scalability, and accuracy of threat hunters, understand how much you should automate. Consider seeking tools to enhance and scale hunting activities, but not drive them. It is more appropriate to invest heavily in threat intelligence feeds and training and hiring skilled personnel than it would be to seek capabilities that claim they can fully automate hunting activities
