---
layout: post
title: See you later, Incubator
categories: infosec
---

I participated in a Vendor Incubator Program back when I started working and was finishing my studies. There were two reasons why I wanted to participate in such: expand my professional horizons (learn more from other people and differently, and if the possibility materializes, work abroad) and start a new personal challenge (take care of things independently and start a new life elsewhere). I think I can safely say that the objectives were fulfilled and met, and that I have learned very much along the path (not necessarily what the Vendor wanted to teach me). Unfortunately, you can't force creatives into a box because if you try, they'll no longer be creative. And no one will want your box. This is what I quickly found out at the end of my run and when I finally moved abroad.

One day, I stumbled upon the Vendor Incubator program, and it piqued my interest given it was related to the academy I was studying at (either the Vendor or the topics). I was studying at the academy like always and was trying to figure out what I could do differently from the others, because I was getting tired of everything around me, and specially, tired of the routine. So, I decided to apply for the program. First, I got a phone call: you prepare a basic script and talk to the lady on the other end and explain to her why you want to participate in the program (selling yourself). Then, you have a quick chat via conference call with some Vendor University Relations lady, or someone else related to the program, outside of the country and get amazed at being able to practice your English with someone foreign, because Portuguese are dazzled by everything that is foreign (really). After the approval from these people, you get to go to the office of the Vendor company and attend a one-day event with several appointments. Of course, from where I come from, everything is in the capital city, and I was living in a not so favorable city (seen as a second-class citizen) and was forced to go there (fortunately they refunded the cost of hotel and trip; how nice of them).

This was the real start of my Incubator path. What followed next showed me that what you think is out of this world and what you see from the outside and from the sidelines, and what you contemplate as magnificent... sometimes it really is not what you make it out to be.

# The First Tasting

Are you excited about technology? Would you like to meet Vendor engineers? Would you like to learn more about Vendor as an Employer? Would you like to learn how Vendor is supporting students' employability? Welcome on board. Vendor Incubator Program is a special educational program designed by the Vendor organization, Vendor Academy, and other bullshit institutions to support employability of Vendor fanboy students and graduates interested in technologies from the Vendor, and of course, starting a career in IT working for the Vendor that you must worship. The Vendor Incubator Program is for students studying a STEM degree (preferably in their last year of studies) or graduates with some Vendor technology interest and some knowledge (it doesn't have to be much, really), who are ready to learn and develop, and see themselves as professionals in the IT industry in the future, and of course, another cog in the wheel. You will benefit from a free Vendor course delivered online (that you can get yourself) as well as experimenting with cutting-edge advanced technologies (because you need to access them yourself), soft skill seminars (the art of bullshitting) and webinars delivered by Vendor experts (another lunch and learn mandatory bullshit sessions that Vendor engineers are forced to deliver) during regular virtual meetings (bridge call) and/or live office visits (at least there is free food). There will also be a chance to upgrade soft skills, customer facing skills and other related skills with persuading people on doing what you want them to do. For those interested in automation and programming, there is the possibility to participate in projects where no person participating wants to do anything and where the person in charge, is uninterested in it because they have better things to do. Python and other Network Automation tools that are in the tip of the tongue of Vendor companies are also reinforced to participants of the program because... well, because it is what is popular. They offer another pointless course and certification for it, which can result in another useless qualification. This program is offered from the beginning of the school year and the application process usually starts in the middle of the school year. Whatever you do at this place – from outdated snake-oil IT products and silver-bullet promises, to monolithic software solutions and slavery consulting - your transformative ideas can propel friction between the masses and fuel disruption in. the mundane workplace environment, so you better behave. Making what's not yet thought of a possible reality – sounds like you? You should move on and look somewhere else.

# So... the (Real) First Tasting

In truth, the Vendor Incubator Program is useful in several fronts for a graduate from university: first, you get to witness an office environment and the related shenanigans of a bigger company, especially if you started working in a smaller place (which is usually the case in Portugal and I was no exception); second, you get to meet other students from other universities in your country and see the level of teaching from the other institutions first-hand, and compare yourself to others of course (and be amazed by the clear differences in the teaching); third, you get to finally have a small hint on what is “out there” in terms of what you need to learn regarding technology, because in the university and in the academy you study at, you are still looking at outdated programming languages and at products no enterprise contemplates to acquire (both when you start and finish studies). I would add another important point: you get to break out your “chains” and get out of the small-minded city you live in and from the small-minded folks you have to study with (that was the best part for me). I am from Porto, even if it is the second biggest city in my country, it is not the capital city, it is certainly not a cosmopolitan city, it is not the modern city people make it out to be, and for sure, it is still the place circa 90’s/00’s when you have to be careful of wandering around places that will be full of saloios, gunas and bairrolas. A program like this, that forces you to move out of your comfort zone, “learn and adapt” and fight for you spot, is a practice for what is yet to come in the future.

Before I was able to have the official admission, I had to go to a full-day event at the Vendor office and undergo several tests and interviews. I remember the day clearly: I put vacation at work, I went alone on the train, took my laptop and things, and stayed at the hotel. It felt like vacation to me because from where I come from and due to the social status, you don’t get the luxury to have vacations or small trips occasionally. You live to work and you breath to study, because if you don’t do this, you are fucked (and no one will give you a hand, by the way). I had a multiple choice answer test regarding basic networking and system knowledge level (the type of tests that are made for beginners), I had an interview regarding soft-skills (the type of interaction where you are evaluated on a psychological level), I had a questionnaire regarding my background (the type of inquiry that evaluates your social level) and finally a simulation exercise regarding customer interaction and troubleshooting (the type of drill that tests your approach to deal with problems/situations).

For me, it was exciting at the time to go through this: I didn’t really step foot out of my local area (I didn’t even fully know my own country) and I was surrounded by downers (negative thinking), nettys (constant denial) and small-minded people (people who thought life was what was given to them). I am not saying that they were good or bad people _per se_, just saying that they were not my crowd, and certainly looking back at it now (living abroad), not the type of people to stick around with. If there is one thing that is certainly true about living abroad and told by emigrants, is that living abroad really expands your view on your background and home. I was very enthusiastic because I was eager to go to this program. I wanted to get to know the group of people I would meet from abroad and the capital, but also, to understand how daily work is achieved on these types of companies, how do the engineers tackle the technologies inside the Vendor company (what are the struggles and what are the lessons they have learned) and to have an opportunity to enrich my curriculum and get to know more of current technologies that I wouldn’t have the opportunity otherwise (in my academy we dealt with old technology (as it was instructed by the curriculum of the Vendor academy)). The initiative is well-thought: students who want to pursue a career in the same field as the one introduced by study topics in the program, have an opportunity to get an advantage on understanding better the market to which they want to apply and work for but, in addition, they get to understand different types of roles inside a Vendor company, how those roles fit into different departments and how those departments or teams inside them, interact with each other, and understand the “almost” standard way a Vendor company operates.

After that long and tiresome day, I was for sure anxious of the result: am I accepted into the program or am I rejected and stay home? The election and choosing process into these programs is typically based on your current situation at the university and what you show in these interviews. Recruiters in these sessions are looking for people that (blindly) love to work with products from the Vendor (if you study or studied in the academy, even better), but more importantly, they are looking for people who can articulate themselves well on why they decided to apply to such a program. Usually, motives such as “I want to join Vendor company” and “I want to work on XYZ domain” don’t cut it because they are either too broad or too desperate. Who recruiters look for, are students who have done different things regarding the topics of their interest, students that have a specific goal in their minds on what they want to learn and want to do in the future (plans) and students that do not shy away of spending their free time and/or money into pursuing those desires and dreams. If recruiters see people with these characteristics, it tells them that the person is persevering, diligent and willing to listen and learn. These can be good qualities if put into good use but can also be qualities that can be misused if the intentions are not the right ones (as is usually the case). Engineers interviewing, on the other hand, expect people who may not have the full grasp of all the technical topics to which are of his/her interest (the student) but that have good thinking, rationale, critical thinking and that can tear apart a situation and contemplate what are the options to consider following, what are the good and bad options. Of course, regarding how much you know, different engineers have different expectations, and some engineers might be nice about it and have the empathy that students are not on the same level… and some engineers might not be as nice and destroy you in the interview with several questions that require a great deal of effort. Fortunately, the decision weighs on both persons and the head or runner of the program decides on the students that will be admitted.

# The Call

I was at the Vendor academy; it was the comfortable and peaceful place at university where I could focus on my work and where I did not have to see anyone I didn’t want. I felt the outcast a lot of times, because I had a different commitment towards the classes, at least comparing myself to others; I was highly motivated due to my personal issues and due to what I wanted to do in life. For me, those classes and the degree at the university were a way to get out of the sentinel I was currently in, to be able to move on and to extend my opportunities and flee. A lot of chips were put on the table, a lot of cards were played, and I was anxiously waiting for the results of the plays. It is said that life changing moments happen when we least expect, be it catastrophic and grievous, or worthwhile and joyful. I got a call from an unknown number from abroad, and I was not expecting that at all. Anyone barely called me. I felt down on the luck (not much in my favor personally), family shitstorm is the same as usual, I was exhausted from work (having to learn and get to speed with how corporate office works) and I was getting frustrated once again with university and the people I was forced to work with (everyone who studied at university knows how the story goes). Looking at the phone screen, either I was being a victim of a spam call or something important was going to happen. I answered and asked in English who it was. After a few minutes talking to the person on the other side, I couldn’t believe it. I was told that I have been accepted into the Vendor program. When I applied and went through the in-person day, I have to say I doubted that I would have been accepted. I am very demanding and rigorous towards myself (and others) and feel that I always have a lot to learn (imposter syndrome), and I understand now years later that in this industry, these feelings are very common. At the time and having no allies to tell me how things were, I had to figure this shit out myself. I really felt that even with me pouring my hearth out that day and fully striving to make the best impression possible, that it was not enough. It felt invigorating and gave me more confidence that I was going in the right direction. 

I mostly kept to myself at the university and in the academy, I learned that it is better to keep low than to talk loudly amongst colleagues you don’t really know, because you face people from all walks of life. Unfortunately, news travel fast, even when you don’t want to. The intentions are mostly good: my instructor and some teachers were happy to have a student to get admitted into the program, given that the program was not even advertised in that university (and with no connection with that university) and having the first student from my city to go to a program like that, given that all students were from the capital and from a particular university. For sure it felt like a badge of honor and showed that I had different aspirations and goals. I hated working on what I was working before I got the job I was currently working at, simultaneously studying at the academy, and I hated what I studied previously (which ironically, nowadays I study more and more, although with a different twist to it (security)) and I hated what I was studying or did not like the structure of university because as we all know, university teaching is old and archaic. Having the possibility to participate in something different from what is normally studied, meaning bachelor’s and master’s degrees with backward and delusional teachers and having no contact with reality (even though the university I studied at, "handed out the panflets" saying otherwise), gave me a feeling that I was about to walk in into something special. Other students despised this, and consequentially, other students despised me. It was normal, I learned. This fierce competition exists in every environment, and in different spectrums. Since I was used to this (as I am now), I continued doing my own things and following the same path. A mail that was sent to me afterwards explaining all the logistics. I was willing and ready to spend my savings and free time, and use my vacation days at work to be able to participate in the program. I saw it as an opportunity and I knew I had to seize it. It was meant to be.

# The Structure

The Vendor Incubator program was divided into two ways of presenting passively: webinar and seminar. Having self-studied and studied at university, I was accustomed to these types of classes. 

Webinars are usually done by several Vendor companies and other communities, who want to present a product or want to discuss some topics with a guest. Besides the academy lessons and what you learned from the material and books; the internet was your only choice. The internet is a free reign ground and if you have been using it for a long time (navigating through “unknown waters”), you would find out what you were looking for, specifically regarding study materials for what you studied at the academy. Webinar from the Vendor and presentations or trainings regarding the Vendor products were the alternative. I saw all this as a supernumerary approach: I was in a very good academy in my country, and we had good lessons despite the banter that occurred every time. We had conditions, something that I would learn that maybe other students in other countries (participating in the program) didn’t have. We had access to physical equipment when needed, we had access to good classrooms (fully equipped), and we had materials to study from. The rest would be a surplus and I would learn that maybe it would not be needed for the time being. So, the format of a digital training was not new to me and was welcomed (I could attend it from anywhere; even at work (first day at the job)). The best part of it was being able to watch the recordings (which I much prefer). You watch at your own pace, and you watch it when you want. The downside of webinars is the lackluster presentations you usually face. The more you know and the more you want, the less patient and the more rigorous you are. Webinars where someone presents the same basic topics over and over (that you should have as a requirement for the session) and where there are no actual details on how something work (high-level explanation) is our everyday bread. Unfortunately, it would turn out that the webinars at the Vendor Incubator program, would not be far from it. 

Seminars are usually attended in-person. Because of the multicultural and expanded nature of this program, most countries (except the country hosting and creating the program) would have to attend to the seminar remotely. So, I would have to travel to the capital, spend the night at the hotel, go the next day to the seminar and connect remotely (watch it from a screen). Despite this hilarious logistic requirement, I have to say that it was for the best. Being at the Vendor’s office and getting to know my other Portuguese colleagues who were participating in the program, was a different experience and a rewarding one. It also showed me how students from another city and university are. I got to compare, and I got to see what the fuss was all about: is the capital, the peak of quality regarding our country’s study crowd? Well… People are different, meaning that you will face different students. Maybe the city itself can provide more to the people, but people are different everywhere, and you can also get bad apples in different baskets. I can say that I was fortunate to have welcoming and interesting colleagues (which is surprising given the country I am from), maybe different attitudes and ways of thinking, but certainly a unified group (that is, until the end was near and high stakes were involved). For me it was relevant: I was a person who did not have much experience outside of the routine I had. Shaking my life by visiting another company office, be able to partake into a training done differently, was huge. People might ridicule and think I am over-exaggerating, but again, people have different upbringings, backgrounds and life, in general. For me at the time, it was a boon offered to me that I will never forget. I am always grateful for I had and have, even if the same people/institutions turned the coat on me in the end. I hated seminars and I hated to listen to a presenter in-person, much as I hate to listen someone present at a conference in-person. Fortunately, the seminars were recorded, and I could watch them later. Again, we have tools and means to convey the same message, allowing the attendee to consume it at his/her own pace. I understand that you feed off the energy from the crowd and the people at the stage (or presenting) but maybe it is due to the fact of how I am wired: just explain me the damn thing, I don’t care about your memes and jokes.

In the edition I participated in, there were initiatives in having a select group of students participate in different projects (e.g., automation) and in other non-technical activities (e.g., language exchange). The notion of students wanting to participate in these projects was well-thought out: students who participate in this program are usually people who are the most interested in the material, topics and presentations. Because a lot of the participation and results was under scrutiny to decide if you would get a job at the Vendor company, people wanted to participate in the projects to have leverage over people who were not participating, showing they were the ideal candidates. I raise my hand: I did it as such and I had not intention of pursuing what I was working on in the project, but I also had the sense of responsibility and knew that if you were part of a project, you had to deliver. Unfortunately, I saw the same shenanigans from university in these projects. Go figure.

Overall, I have to say that the structure of the program was good despite the shortcomings. I really don’t see what could’ve been done different, to be honest. I mean, you have students who don’t know much, your backbone of the program is laid on the engineers who are crammed at work and don’t get extra credit for their participation (except a pat on the back), and you rely on material that is given by the Vendor (being based on the Vendor Academy) or on the fruition of the labor from volunteers. We can’t really expect top notch quality, can we?

# The Webinars

The topics and the delivery of these was all over the place. You had sessions where the presenter ran out of time and had much more to say on the topic or due to bad presentation skills, he/she rambled on too much. And, you had presentations where the presenter ran through the slides quickly and didn’t dive deep into the topic at hand (either because he/she didn’t know) or because the topic itself didn’t require a lot of time (usually non-technical). As said previously, recordings are good because you can watch a presentation at your own pace. That is what I ended up doing because I could watch these at my own pace and according to my availability to watch them (usually they went live during my working hours). Each presentation structure differed from each other due to the presenter and the topic. The topics were 75% technical and 25% non-technical. Most had to do with the basics of topics such as security, networking, programming, etc. It was targeted at students and not at people who were already working, which is fine (it is the goal of the program). Non-technical topics were the most interesting: they tackled different subjects that wouldn’t be touched in the slightest by the universities, and if they were, universities would be preparing students to become better professionals. I give huge props to the Vendor into organizing these sessions because they teach me something new and valuable to use in my career, even if the presentation was lackluster. Again, with webinars, you can view at your own pace (you pause the presentation and research about what was said or what is written on the slides).

The participation from the students was mostly active and healthy, and most presenters were serviceable, with a few oddballs here and there. Participation was mostly via chat (due to presenter wanting to maintain order, rightfully so, on the participation) but several times we were allowed to speak and ask our questions (and embarrass the presenter or ourselves). Because I mostly watched the recordings, I didn’t really participate in the webinars. I regret it because I had a lot of questions that I wanted to ask the presenters, but at the same time, I was working. I got some good laughs, some presentations were genuinely entertaining at parts, and learnt something from them after researching about it. The lackluster part comes from the presentation format: getting killed from boredom from looking at .ppt. Some presenters were open to answer questions after the fact, which was good for my situation, but others did not reply (which is understandable, especially after understanding their job). As we will learn later, attending the webinars or watching the recordings, was one of the requirements in order to participate in the final trial: the chance to work for the Vendor. At some point, attending or watching these was seen as an obligation, extracting nothing from it, and the disinterest from the students was emblazed once the program was coming to an end. Speaking of the students attending, some were more vocal than others (intimidation factor) and some were more stuck-up than others (inferiority complex). Meeting some of them in person, I can safely say that… a person behind the keyboard is not the same as a person in real life; you don’t have the same behaviors on the internet as you have in real life, and for sure you will have different behaviors when you know that winning a job at the Vendor is on the line (chameleon). This goes both ways: a person surprising you positively and a person actually being insufferable and a dickhead. Objectively, I am split about the webinars we had. But, looking at it empathetically, I know it was harder to do better. 

# The Seminars

All day passive activity, getting tired eyes (looking at the screen) and headache (bright office lights) due to the remote presentation, and having the same free catering lunch (rice duck). It sounds like I should be lavishing more on the seminars, but even with the social interaction and meeting new people in-person, the days always felt like a drag. Add to that, the long train roundtrips and the short nights of sleep made the days longer. Notwithstanding, and as explained previously, I feel they were an important part of my experience in the Vendor Incubator program. I got to have a first-hand experience of what an office of a multinational company felt like (opposed to where I was working; it was a miniscule place, even with several offices around Europe) and I got to meet people from other universities, comparing educational backgrounds from different cities (and taking conclusions from it). If it weren’t for the obligatory seminars and the previous application day to get into the program, I would have never set foot in the office. I would have never showed up, because I lived in a different city from the office and because there would be no palatable reason to spend money of my own, to visit that same office. If it weren’t for these sessions, I would be attending (as I found out later that some students were doing) only remotely (as it is done now due to the pandemic) and not have a second thought of going to eat rice duck again. 

Seminars were also mostly technical, but we had one or two sessions dedicated to non-technical topics. In the beginning, it started out as sessions with deep technical content delivered by team leads from the office where they were presenting, and halfway through, it got boring, unimaginative and it was unnecessarily long (because the presenters had to respect the time dedicated to the seminar day). Certainly, at the end, it became pointless because students who got what they wanted (working for the Vendor) stopped paying attention or not caring at all (I am guilty of it, don’t think otherwise). The people I have met came from the same university and all of them had different ages, experiences and personalities. Overall as I said, the experience of meeting them was rewarding and gave me new perspective on the result of different educational programs from universities, but also how people from another city are different (or not). It allowed me to see how it was outside of my hometown. Eventually, me and two of them got selected to join the Vendor, having one of them join at the same place abroad as I. Not the best selection out of the gang, but then again, usually the people selected to these places are not the normies, in some way or another (it includes me). Competition is always afloat: even in different roles, we all have always something to prove and to show to someone, especially in a probation period at work. If you are _persona non grata_ and not part of some _clique_, and if the other person needs to be part of the other crowd in order to survive, naturally that person will develop short-term memory. We started working, we stopped talking. More on this later...

Seminars and presentations in-person is something that is still mind-boggling to me, in this day and age. I understand conferences are more for meet-and-greet  other than boring presentations, but still... Why would I conform myself to the presentation pace or presentation format given by someone, when I can have access to on-demand content and watch it myself at my own pace and at any time? Maybe this is something that changes with time, as COVID-19 also changed the way we work (at home). Fortunately, I was able to watch the recordings as well.

# The Project

In this edition of the Vendor Incubator, there were new initiatives in order to change a bit program’s format, and in some ways, it was a good decision. It involved different topics outside of the domains usually covered in the program. One of the initiatives was of the creation of several projects where different groups of students collaborated with different sponsors of the projects (this initiative would be sponsored overall by the “R&D” group of the Vendor) to participate and chime in on automation applied to different products of the Vendor. Participation was voluntary and not many people participated due to lack of time (which I was about to find out), or interest (because students just were not interested in programming), or because they didn’t know how to do programming (most of the students). I decided to participate for two reasons: the project itself I chose was related to software I was already using (being able to learn the same concept for another better software of the same nature), and because I wanted the “extra credit”. By participating in these projects, you would be “extra” considered when going through the trial day (application day for the job).

In this project, me and another student participated, with the sponsorship of a manager/lead from the Vendor office and responsible for this R&D group, in an automation project involving the creation of chat bots for a chat collaboration tool. Now do you understand what I meant by something better, previously? It starts with a S and ends with a K, and it is not from this Vendor (that name is legacy and was lame to begin with). So, this is the overall feel I had regarding this project. It was pointless, it felt farfetched, and the outcome dictated it so (nothing of valuable was done). Since the beginning, me and another student were pretty much left to our own, and as usual with groupwork, you become the one-man army and you must carry the whole team throughout the project. The goal was not clear, despite trying to clarify it: what types of bots, what is the use case, what is the scope, etc. There was no discourse, the goal of the project felt like it was to evaluate how you worked in a group and your potential for the company (automation). We developed documentation, API reference, command list, and were able to develop a mock. In the end, unfortunately, I learned that you can’t do everything, and even more so, when I had to do the certification exam (another sweetin’ the deal). All the projects’ premises sounded interesting and the technologies you had to work with were compelling. The problem is that the setup was the same as giving matches to a bunch of toddlers, in order to make a fire: it would end horrendously bad, or nothing would come out of it.

The concept was nice, but the execution was flawed. I don’t fault the organizers of the Vendor program for having the idea and having it approved, they are not technical people and can’t evaluate the scope of certain things. I blame the lead of the “R&D” group, to try to use exploit students to do work that should be done in an actual R&D group and by paid researchers. In desperate times comes desperate measures… but desperate people (like I was in this situation) latch on, anyway.

# The Activity

Believe or not (having mostly a technical focus), I like to learn languages and cultures and find it extremely rewarding and it was one of the best parts of the program; at least when you got to talk to people from other countries (before you were misunderstood by what you said; “it is cultural difference!”). Language exchange (for English) was another one of those activities that was put into place to help students who didn’t speak English properly (you would be surprised) and to allow students to help other students in this endeavor. Unfortunately, it didn’t really pan out to be what was envisioned. The activity was comprised of two groups with two leads: each group would have a different outline of the sessions, but it would pretty much be the same in the end, despite the difference in the topics. As before, I saw this as an opportunity to show that I would be a good candidate. I did not mind in helping other students in improving their English, but I did not need to better my English (at least not in this setting). It ended up being another burden in my journey throughout the program.

As expected, it did not last long. The leads were busy, life got in the way, and the sessions did not materialize. Students who needed the language exchange were left cold turkey, and no answer was given to the abrupt stop of the activity. Again, I appraise the organizers in trying something different and in pushing into organizing some of the most important things needed when working in a customer-facing role: clear and understandable communication. If you can’t speak English in a comprehensive manner, don’t bother with the technical details (or at least I thought so, before starting to work at the Vendor). You would think that when contacting support engineers, managed services engineers or consultants, you would get someone who you can understand when he/she speaks, but then again, the people who are responsible of things, don’t know how to cross the t’s and dot the i’s. Life has always ways of surprising you and this was another one of those times.

# The Exam

Another component of the Vendor Incubator program was to successfully complete a certification exam. The point of this was to show you could organize your own time in order to self-study and pass a certification exam, because the Vendor needs its engineers (for the most part) to be certified. It gives “credibility”, “seniority” and “knowledge” (in some cases) to the engineer and it shows this to the customer (from the email’s signature and the Linkedin profile). Most students were not aware or familiar with certification exams. In order to get to work for the Vendor, students needed to pass an exam. There were two situations: students who did not have any certification done, needed to pass the Level 1 certification (one exam); and students who had already passed the Level 1 certification, could pass one of three exams related to the Level 2 certification, get advantage over other students in the application process to the job (because you did more than the others?), or just go to the trial day with the Level 1 certification done (but without the advantage). Fucking convoluted. Access to the material to self-study was given, and students were required to study on their own. 

I was very lucky: I passed the Level 1 certification before the program and did it properly, by going to the Vendor Academy and working with real equipment, learning everything from scratch. This is the real preparation, fiddling with equipment for a year (in classes and outside of classes) and learning along the way. I don’t think reading text, watching videos and typing commands into a simulated/emulated environment prepared beforehand is going to prepare any student for a customer support role, especially what is covered in the certifications (which is not real-life troubleshooting). Knowing the real reason behind this requirement for the application and knowing my situation (both the certification I did and wanting to move on), I knew I had an advantage, despite the unfairness of this. I took advantage of it. Organizers should have given the students an opportunity to do the certification, without any special requirement whatsoever. If they don’t do it or want to do it... maybe they might not be interested in the job, at all.

# The Trial

D-day arrives and I remembered it clearly: I took the day off from work and I was preparing everything the weekend before. Pamphlets for my presentation made in Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop (as it was done first time around), prepared the speech, went over a few technical topics, researched about the company, etc. The usual stuff (most of it) when you apply for the job. A lot was on the line: I was unhappy at my current workplace (I was an intern and wasn’t doing an intern job) and I didn’t want to work in my country (which was proven to me later that it is not a matter of territorial boundaries); I was tired of living where I was living (because I wanted more and I was tired of my surroundings); and, ultimately, I wanted to move on (much as I also did recently). It wasn’t as much of a matter of desiring to work at the Vendor (as it was proven later that year and, even more, a few years later), although I was very honored to be chosen and to work there… it was about being somewhere else where I could develop myself and my career (which despite all the rocky paths, it did happen). 

This was one of the most important days of my life: I saw human nature in extreme poles, and I saw the meaning of ulterior motives. The presentation went very well, the interview with HR/Recruitment went very well, the basic exam (as last time) went very well, and the troubleshooting exercise went very well. I presented myself as genuinely as possible but prepared everything I could prepare. What was surprising to me were the people: some students who were attending the Vendor Incubator program quickly became unfriendly and/or became self-centered when it was time for the real deal. Looks were given, comments were made (“why him?”) and the game got dirty (bad mouthing). I know that it was a big deal to get into the Vendor and to work for them (even if it was not my main motivation, anyway), but sneaky tactics was the least of my expectations to be honest. Our brains are wired for morality, justice and progress to benefit ourselves, not to partake in a selfless fight for development of every one of us, as I learned. People are quick to change their moral values depending on which rule means “more benefits” for them, instead of others. I am not saying I am completely pure, but I am also not completely corrupt either. As the day progressed, the more intense it got. Fortunately, I was alone on these sessions and was able to be on my own. By the time I was done, it was time to collect my things and go home. My task was done and all I had to do was wait for a decision. It was a weight lifted off my shoulders as I was preparing very thoroughly for this moment for some time, and it meant the world to me. If I would have been rejected, I can’t lie, I would’ve felt crushed, but it wouldn’t have invalidated the Vendor Incubator experience. Fortunately, I was accepted (more on that later) but the whole process felt like a snakes and ladders game.

# The Waiting

Working, studying and anticipating a decision, for a few weeks. Those were very stressful and brutal weeks, as I have already implied. The talks between each other (“what did you answer?”; “what did you say?”; ”what did you present?”, etc.) were constant and people were trying to figure out and guess what would be their probabilities of being chosen. I tuned off at that point and just muted my experience to others, just to have peace of mind and not think about it (what was done, was done). Competition was lively but not for the right reasons. I already knew this from the Trial Day and knew this from attending the whole Vendor Incubator program. It was not new to me.

The worst part was not attending the remaining of the Vendor Incubator program while waiting for an answer but going to work and not knowing what your future would be. Would I stay in my hometown, living as I was living and appearing in the office not knowing if I would have a permanent job after the internship? Or would I move abroad, work in another place and start my new life (alone) somewhere else? This was the most stressful part: the unknown. One day I was at the office, working, and fucking disappointed with my job and with some of the people around me. I think at this stage in my life, I understand where they come from, but at that time I didn’t (it’s called experience). I would learn later what to expect in this kind of scenarios (companies). When you least expect... you know the rest. I got the call.

# The Decision

One of the most important calls of my life because it drastically changed my life. The decision was that I was accepted. I was in and I felt relieved. At that specific time, I felt really fucking good because I could leave the rotten place I was at (everything) and say goodbye once and for all to where I was. I would learn later that you should not go back to the places where you were not happy, or places where you had happy memories (they are not the same places anymore). I revisited several times all of what characterizes the time and space of all these spots, and everything moved on. Everything moves on, with or without you. I also realized that there are connections that matter, and you keep, and some that are superficial, and that you discard. I learned it both ways (keeping some and losing some) and am still learning.

I prepared for months before the departure: learning the foreign language, learning about the city, learning about the country, learning about its culture, preparing for the role I was about to take, asking questions (and not getting answers), etc. A lot of preparation and a lot of expectations came with it. I was finishing the school year and was about to leave work, and all that was in my mind was the flight to leave my country of birth. But before that, I had one more task to do...

# The Promotion

I was contacted by my soon-to-be-employer, specifically people part of the Vendor Incubator program. They liked my enthusiasm and appreciation for the program and wanted me to talk a bit about my experience. To be honest, I was happy to talk about it as I thought that overall, it was a good experience for a student and completely worthwhile. At the same time, I knew there were problems with the program. Conflict arises: do I not go and make up an excuse; do I go and tell the absolute truth and maybe fuck up my chances of going to work abroad; or do I go, tell the “good story” and get some good Samaritan points in my repertoire? I went with the third option and learned early in life (but perfecting as time went along) that sometimes you got to “swallow some frogs”.

I really did not enjoy the experience: not many students showed up (it was exam season), not many students were interested (fiddling their thumbs), and to be honest, I did not have much to say (what could I say?). I felt like saying what I said, would not really make up the minds of these students. It is up to them to decide if they want to apply for this program and participate; nothing I will say will have a role in their decision, to be honest. It felt like a promotion: “join now”. Looking back at it, it was a promotion. From one side, I understood, and it was the least I could do for them (especially given the opportunity I had, even if I earned it). On one side, it felt wrong, and I felt used. I learned a lesson here: don’t say “yes” to everything and be careful with what you sign-off on. Little did I know, the people I met at this event, and responsible for this event, were a sample of what I was about to face at the office, when I would start working abroad. 

# The Impact

In this journey you can count on a few people and places, and those connections only grow stronger when more genuine and those places only feel more special when more peculiar, and I learned this even more throughout the years living abroad. The Vendor Incubator was life-changing experience to me because it allowed me an opportunity to change what I didn’t like and to look for something else, drastically and quickly, not necessarilly what I learned out of it. Honestly, it will be something I will never forget, even with everything that has happened afterwards.

I met people in this program: some turned out to be friends (very few) and some turned out to be people that are worthless (a lot). I understood that if you make a tremendous effort towards people, feeling like you are being someone you are not... maybe that person is not worth it after all; _suum cuique_ (may all get their due). I found places due to this program: some places have a “place” in time, and sometimes, if you feel that it is not right for you and for your moment, maybe it is time to move on. It doesn’t make it a bad place; it just makes it inadequate.

Vendor Incubator program meant to incubate new professionals for a new career. I prefer to see it from another angle: the Vendor Incubator program allowed for the nourishment of a new free, independent and grown individual. It allowed me to begin my journey, and for that, I am eternally grateful. It meant a lot, so I hope to return the favour... it is not a goodbye, but a see you later.
