---
layout: post
title: MSS - Managed Shitty Services
categories: infosec
---

The informatization and technological adaptation by archaic, antiquated and classic industries and businesses such as financing (e.g., banks, trading), manufacturing (e.g., factories, shipment), public service (e.g., government, NGO), among others, as led to instituions within these fields to procure outsourcing and services that can help them keep-up with the demand to enter the new digital world and to be able to serve and fulfill the demand of the globalization and the ramping rate at which these businesses work nowadays. Of course also because, outsourcing saves costs for capital expenditures! Several companies such as the Big-5 and other Vendor companies provide services that help institutions such as the aforementioned, to be able to adapt with ease and painlessly to these current norms. One would imagine and expect that by having contract signings with high fee-rates, high buy-in, high investment with these service providers, that customer companies would be betting on having a top-notch managed IT services and qualified personnel. Unfortunately, because of the competitive nature of contract signing between several of these competitors in the market, it entails that a lot of corners have to be cut, meaning that things like budget, expertise and technology of these managed IT services, in the end, are affected and diminish the overall caliber of the rendered service. 

Shortly after my TAC experience at the Vendor company I was at (you can read about it in another blog post), I moved towards one of these so-called Managed Security Services (MSS), in which it serves hundreds of customers, have different teams around the globe, follow strictly IT Service Management and IT management frameworks such as ITIL, and that pride themselves on having premium on-the-clock support in case an incident arises. In theory, MSS are the systematic approach to manage a business’s information security needs. MSS offers a comprehensive set of security options managed by external service providers and these options include 24/7 automated monitoring, threat detection, security upgrades, assessments, and audits. In reality, MSS are the systematic approach to maintain and not let a hanging-by-the-wire infrastructure (designed by architects who are no longer with the company) to be destroyed, so that the business can continue to operate. MSS offers 24/7 manual and flawed monitoring done by "engineers" in developing countries or in countries and states in the EMEAR and AMER region, respectively, where the labor is cheap, and also provides checkbox assessments and audits, half-assed problem-inducing security changes and upgrades (sometimes done "by-the-book") and something called "to-keep-appearences" threat hunting and security incident handling.
